The Joe Rogan experience. Unlike China,
the United States has at least in perception,
a clear differentiation between business and
government. And one of the concerns that, um, uh,
when I've talked to experts in China and their electronics and their,
their technological innovation is that they're inexorably connected to their
government in some way, shape or form.
And that it's one of the main reasons that makes it incredibly difficult to
compete with them on a global marketplace. Yeah.
When you see that this,
our state department has told people to stop using Walway devices, cause Walway,
which is the number two provider of cell phones in this world.
Now they're connected to the Chinese government.
Like how do you take that? What, what,
what do you do about that situation and how.
Relationship between private sector and government here in.
Particular with the competition? What look when it comes to data? I mean,
we're very concerned about people sharing data. We've, we've done it ourselves,
we've spider, and we've proven through the Edward Snowden case,
govern our government's doing as well to us,
we're worried the Chinese are doing it to us.
Or so we're saying don't buy Chinese stuff,
they're gonna steal your data and steal your information and steal your,
your business secrets. Yeah. What can you do to stop that?
What can you do to mitigate what's already happened?
Uh, well, I, you know,
ultimately you can't stop every single individual with what they're purchasing.
I think that, um, you know, you can regulate what is, uh,
sold here in the United States. Uh,
I think there's a role that government can play,
especially as we're talking about artificial intelligence and that kind of
technology again, first and understanding it, uh, and then playing,
um, being that responsible party, uh,
to make sure that what is being developed is not something that's going
to result in these, uh, unintended negative consequences.
Uh, so obviously our government isn't, uh, you know,
doesn't have ownership over private business in this country,
but we still do have sensible, uh,
regulations and responsibility that government has to play in regulating what
businesses can. And can't do.
What's interesting to me is this competition aspect between
dealing with essentially just the private sector here in America
versus the private sector in China,
that's combined inexorably with the military and that they have much more
influence over what gets done and how things get done. Um,
what did you pay attention at all to the state departments call for a boycott of
Walway products? What did you think about that?
Uh, well, I understood it, you know,
I think there is a concern about that technology being, um, being used to,
to get our information, um, you know, so that that,
um, can be enforced within the federal government, right?
So if the state department is saying, Hey,
the federal government is not going to purchase any Walway produced products or
cell phones or whatever the technology is, uh,
and encourage other people in the private sector to, to do the same.
People were worried about over here is that what they're trying to do is stifle
the development of this gigantic company and that what they're trying yeah.
Of Walway cause Walway went from having a tiny share of the marketplace about
five years ago,
to being the number two cell phone provider in the world next to Samsung,
the gesture surpassed apple, and that this is a Chinese company and that,
because this Chinese companies connected to the Chinese government,
the worry is that they're making ungodly sums of money and it's enhancing the
Chinese government's ability to perform surveillance or just to just compete
just financially compete on a global scale. And tech nerds, um,
seemed to be siding with Walway, which is interesting to me,
I've read a lot of tech blogs from people that are experts.
And they say that there's no evidence that these cell phones have anything in
them or are doing anything,
but that there has been some evidence of network devices.
And some of these network devices do have some sort of a third-party input or
sensibility, some ability to extract information that shouldn't be there.
That's interesting. Yeah.
And what this it's like when you're dealing with a situation where you're
competing with a country that also controls these companies that are
the biggest cell phone and electronics providers on the planet. Yeah.
How do you handle that? Like what, what is diplomacy with China? Like?
Well, we can see what's happening right now with Trump.
It's it's not working very well. Uh, you know, this trade war that,
that frankly, president Trump is escalating, I think is really,
really dangerous. Uh, it's having a negative impact on domestic producers,
manufacturers, farmers,
a friend of mine is a small business owner and he saw the news this morning
about China retaliating, um, with Trump's escalation,
I think with, with another increase of their tariffs and how he's thinking,
like my gosh, that's going to impact my small business. It got, I don't know,
probably less than 15 employees and trying to figure out how that's gonna impact
the pricing and production, manufacturing, everything, every step of the way.
What's so dangerous about, uh,
what Trump is doing with this trade war that he is, um,
that he's escalating is that these trade and economic wars can very
easily turn into a hot war.
And we're talking about a nuclear armed country in China. Uh,
so while there are trade differences and issues that we've got to address with
China and issues with intellectual property and other things, um,
the way that Trump is going about this,
I believe is very irresponsible and dangerous,
creating a huge amount of uncertainty for American businesses, uh,
while increasing tensions with one of the biggest nuclear powers in the
world.
That's a scary thought.
It is. And, and the.
I think that it's possible that that could lead to a nuclear war that this trade
war could lead to something military. Yes. Yes.
What is Trump's argument is his argument essentially is that China has been
treating us unfairly and that the rates that we're getting there are there,
they're not, they're not even.
Yeah. I mean,
Trump is recognizing a problem that exists that trade imbalance with China is,
is a real.
Issue. Why does that trade imbalance exists?
Well, I mean, you can point to a, probably a whole host of,
of issues in trade policy. I don't think it's any one single incident,
um, that has, that has created that imbalance and that, you know,
I'm in Iowa a lot these days.
And a lot of farmers have been struggling with that, um,
and would like to see it fixed, uh,
a lot in the tech community would like to see these issues fixed,
especially related to intellectual property,
but the way in which Trump is doing it is having a very negative
effect on these American businesses and jobs that Trump is,
is supposedly advocating for both in, um,
but really in the uncertainty that that is being set where, you know,
it looks like they're on the brink of a deal just the other day. It looks like,
Hey, okay, the United States and China,
they've been working through these issues, they're on the brink of a deal.
And all of a sudden Trump sends out a tweet saying, Nope,
we're going to increase these tariffs from 10% to 25%.
And now China is left. Like, okay, I thought we were,
I thought we were close to working,
working things out and now left in a situation where they have no other
recourse, but to retaliate as they did this morning.
So you can see quickly how this thing is spiraling.
So out of control and increasing these tensions between our two countries
not being done in a way that that to me,
is strategic providing us with the certainty of that path forward to reach a
specific objective of correcting this trade imbalance,
which is how this whole thing began. Why.
Do you think he's doing that? Why would he make it that.
It's hard to explain because it doesn't make sense.
It doesn't actually serve us in our interests of our economic interests of
meeting that objective. I don't know if he thinks this is part of his masterful,
you know, negotiation skills, but it's, it's got a very dangerous effect. And,
and the fact that we have nuclear strategists in this country who
remind us that we are at a greater risk of nuclear war now
than ever before.
It's because of these kinds of things that are increasing tensions between the
United States and China, uh,
other things that are increasing the tensions between the United States and
Russia, you know, a country that we're, we still have, uh,
nuclear missiles pointed at each other that can be set off at a moment's notice,
literally leaving us as people with just minutes before
a nuclear Holocaust, a nuclear disaster, nuclear war.
And you really think that this could be set off by these financial negotiations
and by Trump saying something like that, and just changing his,
his offer in a tweet.
You threatened a country's economy and their economic
security. Where does that logically lead?
You threaten their ability to, uh, provide for their people.
You threaten their ability to provide that stable environment,
which China so much of what they do is just like, Hey, they,
they look for that stability. What else,
what are the recourses there other than the threat of military force?
And in this case, when you're dealing with two nuclear armed countries,
this is what's at risk and it's something, you know,
it's hard for a lot of people to conceive of like, okay, my gosh, nuclear war,
really. I mean, this is something that, you know,
back during the cold war with the, the, the, you know,
kids going under their desk, these drills and, and, you know, okay,
where do you go find a bunker? Uh,
but this is something that that's a reality that we're facing today.
And it's something that, you know, we in Hawaii in January of last year,
went through with that missile alert.
Yeah, that was crazy. It was terrifying, fake missile alert,
nuclear weapons on its way.
Right? Missile inbound towards Hawaii seek immediate shelter.
This is not a drill.
That was the message that was blasted out to over a million phones all across
our state, on the radio, scrolling across the television.
And people immediate like seek immediate shelter. Okay. Where do I go?
Where do I take my kids? Where do I take my family at college kids,
sprinting across campus at the university of Hawaii,
trying to find shelters seek immediate shelter, but the, the sick,
um, insanity of all of this is that there,
there is no shelter. There is no shelter and no nuclear bunkers,
which, which really, I mean, and for,
for people in this administration and politicians who are ratcheting up these
tensions with these nuclear armed countries, bringing us to this new cold war,
they are not saying, okay, well, because we're doing this,
we're going to invest, uh, not just trillions,
but hundreds or thousands of trillions of dollars to make sure that every single
American in this country has a nuclear bunker within 10 minutes of their home or
their place of work or their, or their school,
because that's how much time we'd have.
That's what we would need in order to deal with the consequences of the
decisions that they're making and the failed leadership that they're providing.
And so this is,
this is an issue that I'm raising awareness about because of what's at risk.
I mean, this is, this is the greatest threat that we face,
and it requires strong leadership to walk us away from this brink of nuclear
war, to be able to, to work with other countries, uh,
based on cooperation rather than conflict deescalate.
These tensions work out our differences and, and walk us back from,
uh, walk us back from the brink. Stop this nuclear arms race.
That's making us in the world.